It was funded through the collegiate licensing program and it still is.
And let me see how many scholarships, I forget how many we have on that, but it's a significant number.
But it is funded through the collegiate licensing program here.
But Robert Smith was a guy that came up with the initial idea on that and told me to go design a program.
Make believe that you were employed now as a consultant.
to advise Texas A&M about the future of the Corps at this university?
What advice would you give them?
Well, I think, you know, there's some things that need to happen, need to change in the Corps.
I think if we're not careful, the Corps is going to get so outdated
that it will lose appeal and the numbers will shrink and go away.
I would tell the University of the Aggie Band is one of your strongest identification marks.
You need to keep it very strong.
You need to make sure that that band stays strong because it's a favor with a lot of folks out there.
The band is a key to the court.
If the band goes, I think the Corps would go too.
It's a kind of an advertisement.
It is.
And people love it.
So keep the band strong.
Do what you can to support it.
They need a new band hall down there.
The band hall was kind of put together.
It looks like a...
you know, an add-on over there that didn't seem to match or anything.
It served a purpose, but we need a new band hall down there.
To keep the band live and vibrant, we need some new things there.
They've done a good job, and the band directors that they've had here, Ray Toler and
The people before him, but the people Ray has on his staff have done an excellent job.
But they need to use the band more in outreach and fundraising.
And they've picked up on that in recent years.
The band has been used very significantly in certain functions, some fundraising functions and all.
But the band is a key element to this university.
And BU Corps and Encore, they all feel proud of the band.
and what it represents at A&M.
Be careful with your connection relationship with the military services.
We can't ignore that military relationship.
We could fall out of favor with the military services and they kind of turn their back on us and leave us just plain vanilla.
cadet program without a good commissioning program.
Not that everyone's going to be commissioned, but we need to have a good base for commissioning here and keep a strong tie with the military services or we could lose a lot and they could turn against us and say, forget it.
And I think that would be a big blow.
If we don't, I think
The university needs to continue to provide that scholarship program I talked about.
There have been times when people said, well, we'd like to take that money and do something else with it.
But the scholarships are key to maintaining a strong core.
What size should the core be, numerically?
I think 2,000 minimum.
I think there's a...
A critical mass that you have to have to have all the programs and to look like a core that should represent this university.
At Virginia Tech, they've got 6, 7, 800 in their core and a student body of 25,000.
I've always said 2,000 in my view is the minimum number.
All right, is there a...
uh a maximum number uh probably so uh one housing has something to do with that unless you change things up to have allow a lot more day students what might that number be twenty twenty six hundred twenty six twenty six hundred and that triggers an interesting thought when i came here there was no
goal for core enrollment.
I didn't know what it, you know.
We got these 12 dormitories down here and they hired a new admissions director, Gary Englegall.
I don't know if he came after your time there, but Gary came here from Illinois.
And it was in my first year here, and he came over to pay a courtesy call on me, and we were just visiting there, and I was telling him about the court.
Gary didn't understand any of that.
You know, he hadn't come from this part of the country.
And I said, see, that's our area out there.
See those dormitories out there?
And, you know, that's the court area over there.
Oh, yeah, okay.
Well, he's interested in enrollment.
He said, well, Tom, you know, how many students are you trying to have down there?
I said, well, that's a good question, Gary.
You know, I don't know.
I said, I really want to fill up all those dormitories down there.
That's my initial goal.
That's, I think, whatever that is.
Well, I didn't know what that was.
Nobody would ever say it.
I did a little research and found out that's 2,600 students.
But he told me, he gave me some good advice.
He said, Tom, you know, you need to have a goal for what your enrollment ought to be.
and said, you know, you need to get that approved by the university, and that becomes the university's goal to have 2,600 cadets.
I said, by golly, you're right.
That spring, I went up to see Dr. Vandiver with John Colas, and I said, Dr. Vandiver, I want to propose to you that we have a 2,600 goal for the Corps of Cadets, that be the official university goal.
He didn't say anything.
He just pounded the table and said, Tom, you got it.
Man, I walked out of there feeling like I'd really accomplished something getting a 2,600 goal.
But since then, that has become our goal.
The Vision 2020 statement, General Hopgood was instrumental in getting them to include 2,600 as the official goal for the Corps Cadets.
That fills up all those rooms over there.
Now, you say, what's the upper limit?
You could have a little more than that, but I think 3,000 would be a...
And, you know, perhaps more than that if you change things up some way.
But practically speaking, I think 2,600 remains a good goal.
And we were on a track, and we set out in the early 90, 92.
We said, okay, by the year 2000, we want to be 2,600.
That was our goal, fill a quad.
2,600 by the year 2000.
I carefully tracked that every year.
And through my last year over there,
We were on the rise, but things have kind of flattened out.
Recruiting has become much more difficult today, and so we're kind of hovering around that 2,000 mark right now.
And it's going to take a real stretch of things to reach 2,600 in my opinion now.
I think we're struggling to hang on to 2,000.
But if the core starts falling down to 1,800, then 1,500, then 1,400, I think you're on an ending trend.
And that's what we've got to avoid.
I'd give advice to try to keep that core up to 2,000 right at that as a minimum number.
Okay, I don't have, what other topics?
I think, but I think I've talked a lot more than I should.
And how do you feel about A&M's future?
Oh, I feel good about A&M.
I think overall it's a university still on the rise.
I think our best days maybe are still ahead.
I see it.
I don't know if we're going to make a top 10 in 20 years.
And in my opinion, we don't have to.
But, you know, we want to be a contender.
We want to be pushing for it.
And I see in a lot of areas we are.
I think our infrastructure, physical plant and all, needs a lot of work.
I walk around the campus and, frankly, I don't see that beautiful...
set of buildings and all that I see on some campuses.
And, of course, our climate and all has something to do with that.
We're kind of a hodgepodge that's grown together.
I wish someone would have taken a ball 50 or 100 years ago and said, let's be standard on some of these things.
You know, we now have buff-colored brick for standard.
The infrastructure seems to me is not in good shape.
The streets are not in.
A lot of them are very poor.
Joe Routt, I don't know anything's been done to it for years, but they're going to do some work over there.
But a lot of good things coming along.
I can just look back over my 14 years and see all the things that have been added.
There have been some great things added here.
That rec center, beautiful complex, great.
MSC's been expanded, but I walk through that MSC every day and it's getting a little old and tattered.
But a lot of those things need work.
But hopefully there'll be resources to do some of that.
You know, I don't want us to forget those things as we press on in certain areas.
I've talked to new students
new student conferences in the summer.
I used to make all those conferences and we'd talk to every core group and parents and all and talk to kids and I've heard them express themselves.
You know, why did you select A&M?
Oh, we visited Baylor and Texas and all these other places and, you know, we pulled into College Station and we looked over there and saw that campus and that fit our view of what a college away from home ought to be.
It's exactly right.
You know, we're not an inner city school.
It's lost in a great mass of people.
You can look out there and see Texas A&M, where it begins and ends.
And that's a concept of college that a lot of people still have that's good, in my opinion.
But we need to keep the campus looking good.
But I feel very good about the future.
Academically, it's come a long way.
I'm concerned that...
Like a lot of people, we've got to the point that it takes long to get a lot of students through school.
We need to some way jack that up.
I think I had a donor call me the other day.
He gave 16 scholarships.
Maybe I mentioned this, that 11 of 16 had 12 hours or less.
Very concerned.
I'm not going to put any more money in scholarships when students are not more serious about finishing than that.
I heard Fred Brown speak this week and he's been big on promoting things that would take advantage of our
facilities here see maybe through the summer put a cheaper price on it to some way encourage people to get on through here and we could take more students that's a trend that a little bit disturbing to me that where in old days it was a stigma if you didn't finish four years now it's quite the accepted norm and there are reasons for some of that but I'm a little concerned about that but as far as
The staff and faculty, I think A&M's in very good shape.
I think Dr. Bowen, all the presidents I've worked for, you know, have been good people and they have a different set of circumstances to deal with.
Each one and, you know, how the other would have handled that, I don't know, but I think Dr. Bowen has done an extremely fine job here during his time and he's not...
You know, I don't know any advice to give him.
I think he's just done a fine job.
As far as the Corps, which I've been involved with primarily, he'd been very supportive of that.
Of course, his own experience, I think, set him up pretty well for that.
You know, whether the next president ought to be an Aggie or not, I wouldn't insist on that.
I'd be happy if he were.
You know, there's some good folks that have been presidents that haven't been Aggies.
So I remember when I came here, it seemed like they told me, they said, man, you're one of the few Aggies that they've hired here.
You know, it seemed like the trend is to hire people from not Aggies.
And I remember there was a study done back then to try to document, you know, how many Aggies were hired.
Some of them told me I was about the only one they could think of, but I've seen a good mixture.
I think it requires a good mixture.
When I ran the Corps, I said, I don't want all Aggies on my staff.
It's good to have some here that can form some basis.
It can provide a historical setting and have some recognition of some things, but I think you need a good mixture of people.
And I believe that, but I think A&M has a good mix here.
I think, you know, the minority thing, obviously, we've got to reach out more there, and that's a tough one.
I don't know how to solve it, but I sincerely believe that we need a greater percentage of minorities, but the community and a lot of things have to change, I think, to help make that happen.
It's good too.
Very good.